#Case Study: Managing a Challenging Cross-Department Collaboration

##Problem Statement: The Research and Development (R&D) department, facing tight deadlines, required support from the software development team to meet 
                        their target dates. Despite a significant learning curve and an already tight schedule, the development 
                        team stepped in and the collaboration showed promising progress.However, as the project neared 
                        completion, a personal family crisis involving a key team member disrupted 
                        progress, further jeopardizing the ability to meet the deadline.

##Analysis and Recommendations

To not complicate things, if I were the project manager, the first thing i would do is to notify the client 
    and negotiate about a possible adjustment of deadline. I believe that unforeseen circumstances may 
    allow some room for considerations on the side of the client. 
    
    Nevertheless, whether or not the application for deadline adjustment is approved, a list of actions has 
    to follow in order to cover the tasks that were left undone due to the absence of that developer.

    Specifically, I would call for an emergency meeting to discuss and list all the tasks left by 
    the developer, the affected decencies and all other consequences. Then, I would consider redistribution of workload. 
    Knowing that we’re approaching the completion of the project, meaning there’s a chance that some hands will be 
    free soon or that some team members are not as loaded as before.I will also, consider personally covering the tasks if 
    I could since part of the expectations from a project manager 
    is that he or she has at least a fundamental understanding of programming.

    If none of that will work, then I would look into the possibility employing part-timers a.k.a. outsourcing.
    This will reduces burden on the existing team while keeping the project on track but 
    the reason why this is the last option is because this would involved additional cost, requiring 
    further negotiation with the project sponsors, which will ultimately delay the development even further.

Now, had I been the concerned developer here, I would try my best to get back my composure as to mitigate 
    the effect of my personal life to my professional life in particular to the completion of the project at hand.
    I would consult with the project manager and the team the tasks that I may not be able to deliver on time.
    
On that note, I think what the developer could have done in anticipation of such unforeseen event is ensuring that 
    his or her works are properly documented. So that in case that he or she really need to leave momentarily for whatever reason,
    the next developer can easily pickup where he or she left.

Similarly, the manager could have better prepare for this unexpected problem by first ensuring workloads are distributed 
    strategically and time estimates or deadlines are realistic. Furthermore, the project manager should check on the team
    members progress and well-being regularly to identify areas where he or she could provide support. Finally, it would have been 
    ideal if the manager created a contingency plan a.k.a "Plan B" to prevent disruptions
    and keeps projects on course when unexpected situations occur.


## Conclusions and Lessons Learned
    My main takeaways in this study is the importance of crafting contingency plan and supporting team well-being.
    Incorporating contingency planning for team availability is really important because it helps prevent disruptions
    and keeps projects on course when unexpected situations occur. At the same time, focusing on team well-being by 
    balancing workloads, offering support, and providing flexibility during challenging times 
    fosters a healthier and more effective work environment.
   
